lab3/docs/lab3-instructions.adoc, before:

:noaudio:
:scrollbar:
:data-uri:
:toc2:

== Lab 3: Configuration Management and Health Checks

In this lab, you will add additional features to the inventory service to integrate it further
into OpenShift and make it easier to manage. The goals of this lab are:

. Further externalize the service's configuration outside of the app entirely using OpenShift
https://docs.openshift.org/latest/dev_guide/configmaps.html[ConfigMaps]. This allows configuration
to be managed and evolved without any rebuilding of the application.

. Understand and implement health checks on the service, to enable OpenShift to more accurately
manage the service's lifecycle and detect and respond to anomalous events such as application
crashes or hangs due to various environmental factors.

.Requirements

* Familiarity with Java programming
* Knowledge of OpenShift concepts

:numbered:

== Find lab3 project files

Each lab in this course is housed in separate directories. Using the command line, find and observe
the files for this lab:

    % cd $HOME/rhoar-enablement/lab3

IMPORTANT: Be sure to replace `$HOME` with the directory you chose to put the content in previous labs.

== Exercise: Externalized WildFly Swarm Configuration

In this first part of the lab you will further refine the handling of WildFly Swarm configuration. Recall from
previous labs, you created different configuration files for development vs. production _stages_. This allowed you
to make changes to the configuration files without touching the source code. However, the files are still part of
the application and even after making changes to them, a re-build and re-deployment of the application is necessary
to get those changes into production.

An even better way is to completely remove the production configuration from the application entirely, and allow your
deployment infrastructure (in this case OpenShift) to manage the configuration changes. Using OpenShift's _ConfigMap_
feature, you will do exactly this.

It is important for an application’s configuration to be externalized and separate from its code. This allows for the
application’s configuration to change as it moves through different environments (dev/test/prod) while leaving the code unchanged. This
also keeps sensitive or internal information out of your codebase and version control.

=== Understand ConfigMaps

ConfigMap is an object used by OpenShift to inject configuration data as simple key and value pairs into one or more
Linux containers while keeping the those containers agnostic of OpenShift. You can create a ConfigMap object in a
variety of different ways, including using a YAML file, and inject it into the Linux container. You can find more
information about ConfigMap in the https://docs.openshift.org/latest/dev_guide/configmaps.html[OpenShift documentation].

ConfigMaps are _mounted_ into a running container, so that the application running in the container sees the content
as a normal file on the filesystem and can be accessed using ordinary filesystem operations (e.g. using `java.io.File`
interfaces).

=== Create OpenShift ConfigMap

In this exercise you will create a ConfigMap containing the production configuration for the inventory service, including
a new configuration value which will be used by the service to change its behavior.

. To create the ConfigMap, create a new YAML file using your IDE at `src/main/fabric8/inventory-configmap.yml` that contains:
[source, yaml]
metadata:
  name: app-config
data:
  inventory-config: |
    project:
      stage: production
    swarm:
      logging: INFO
      datasources:
        data-sources:
          InventoryDS:
            driver-name: postgresql
            connection-url: jdbc:postgresql://inventory-database:5432/inventory
            user-name: swarm
            password: password
    stores:
      closed: Raleigh,Tokyo

. Save the file

Notice it contains a new section starting with `stores:`. This value will be used in the next steps. This file
also includes the declaration of the name of the stage (`production`) that this configuration represents.

CAUTION: YAML files are sensitive to indentation level for each line, so be sure to maintain the indentation
as shown here!

This file will be processed by Fabric8 and create an object within OpenShift when the application is deployed.

=== Modify OpenShift Deployment to use ConfigMap

To use the ConfigMap within OpenShift, it is necessary to declare in the DeploymentConfig object for the
application which ConfigMap to mount, where to mount it, and how to expose its contents.

. Open the `src/main/fabric8/inventory-deployment.yml` file in your IDE

. Below the `# Insert Volumes here` comment, add the following lines:
[source, yaml]
      # Insert Volumes here
      volumes:
        - configMap:
            name: app-config
            items:
            - key: "inventory-config"
              path: "inventory-config.yml"
          name: config

WARNING: Be sure that the indentation above is maintained, and that the first line with `volumes:` is in the same
column as the `# Insert Volumes here` comment!

. Below the `# Insert Volume Mounts here` comment, add the following lines:
[source, yaml]
        ## Insert Volume Mounts here
        volumeMounts:
          - name: config
            mountPath: /app/config

. Modify the `JAVA_OPTIONS` environment variable value (search for `JAVA_OPTIONS` to find it). Set it to this value:
[source, yaml]
          - name: JAVA_OPTIONS
            value: "-Dswarm.project.stage=production -Dswarm.project.stage.file=file:///app/config/inventory-config.yml"

. Save the files(s)

The above changes will cause the ConfigMap values to be mounted into the container at runtime at
`/app/config/inventory-config.yml`, and instruct WildFly Swarm to read it to get its configuration variables.

=== Modify Inventory Service to inject configuration values

Now that the ConfigMap values are read into the WildFly Swarm runtime, you must modify the application to use the value.

In this case you will modify the inventory service to read the "Stores Closed" configuration value, and if a store
is closed, then return `0` for the inventory count for any product in that store.

. Open `src/main/java/com/redhat/coolstore/rest/InventoryEndpoint.java` and replace the entire contents with this
new class implementation:

[source,java]
----
package com.redhat.coolstore.rest;

import javax.inject.Inject;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.PathParam;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;

import com.redhat.coolstore.model.Inventory;
import com.redhat.coolstore.service.InventoryService;
import org.wildfly.swarm.spi.runtime.annotations.ConfigurationValue;

import java.util.Optional;

@Path("/inventory")
public class InventoryEndpoint {

    @Inject
    private InventoryService inventoryService;

    @Inject
    @ConfigurationValue("stores.closed")
    private Optional<String> storesClosed;

    @GET
    @Path("/{itemId}")
    @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
    public Inventory getAvailability(@PathParam("itemId") String itemId) {
        Inventory i = inventoryService.getInventory(itemId);
        for (String store : storesClosed.orElse("").split(",")) {
            if (store.equalsIgnoreCase(i.getLocation())) {
                i.setQuantity(0);
            }
        }
        return i;
    }
}
----

Here we `@Inject` the value of the `stores.closed` configuration value (from the ConfigMap) and then reference it in
the code which loops through each closed store, and if the item is present in the closed store, override the quantity
to be `0` indicating the store is closed.

. Save the file

=== Deploy service and inspect ConfigMap

It's time to test out our new code!

. Create a new OpenShift project to house lab3:
[source, bash]
% oc new-project lab3-userXX

Be sure to replace `userXX` with your username.

. To re-deploy the application, execute:

[source,bash]
% mvn clean package fabric8:build fabric8:deploy

. To discover the URL of the route for this lab, execute:

[source, bash]
% oc get route inventory
NAME        HOST/PORT                             PATH      SERVICES    PORT      TERMINATION   WILDCARD
inventory   inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io             inventory   8080                    None

The hostname of the service will be different depending on your cluster, but in this example the hostname
is `inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io`. To exercise the endpoint, use `curl` once again:

    % curl http://HOSTNAME/api/inventory/329299
    {"itemId":"329299","location":"Raleigh","quantity":0,"link":"http://maps.google.com/?q=Raleigh"}

Be sure to replace the hostname with your actual hostname from the `oc get routes` command.

Since the store is now closed (by virtue of `Raleigh` appearing in the list of closed stores), notice the `quantity:0`.
Our store is now closed in Raleigh!

=== Modify configuration values

Let's exercise the power of ConfigMaps and re-open the store. Until now you've been using the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) to
make changes to OpenShift. In this exercise, you will use the OpenShift Web Console to edit the ConfigMap.

. Open your favorite browser and navigate to `https://MASTER_HOSTNAME:8443`. Be sure to replace `MASTER_HOSTNAME` with
the hostname of the OpenShift Web Console hostname issued to you as part of this lab (e.g. `https://console.swarm.rhmw.org:8443`)

. Login with your OpenShift Credentials.
image:images/login.png[OpenShift login]

. Once logged in, you will see a list of projects. Click on the `lab3-userXX` project.
image:images/projects.png[Projects list]

. You'll see pods for both the inventory and inventory-database.
image:images/pods.png[Pods list]

. Navigate to _Resources_ -> _Config Maps_. You should see one entry for the existing ConfigMap named `app-config`:
image:images/configmap.png[Config Map]

. Click on the name of the ConfigMap to see details including the values of the configuration items.

. To change the value for the closed stores list, click on _Actions_ -> _Edit_.
image:images/configmapdetail.png[Config Map Detail]

. In the text box, change the value for the closed stores to remove `Raleigh`. The final value should simply by `Tokyo`.
image:images/configmapedit.png[Config Map Edit]

. Click Save

. At this point the ConfigMap has been updated, but the service must be restarted for the change to take effect. This
does not require a re-build, but simply a reboot of the service. Navigate to _Applications_ -> _Deployments_. Click on
the _inventory_ deployment to get details:
image:images/dc.png[DC Edit]

 . And then click the _Deploy_ button to re-deploy.
image:images/dcdeploy.png[DC Edit]

. Return to the _Overview_ screen to watch the redeployment happen.
image:images/deployaction.png[DC Edit]

. Once complete, verify the store is now open by using the command line once again (and replace `HOSTNAME` with the hostname
from `oc get route inventory`):

    % curl http://HOSTNAME/api/inventory/329299
    {"itemId":"329299","location":"Raleigh","quantity":736,"link":"http://maps.google.com/?q=Raleigh"}%

Success! The store is now open with `quantity:736` items remaining.

== Exercise: WildFly Swarm Health Checks

In this part of the lab you will enhance OpenShift's ability to manage the application lifecycle by implementing
a _health check pattern_. You may have noticed in previous labs that OpenShift considered the inventory application to be ready to accept service requests
even before the application was truly ready. This is because OpenShift was not _taught_ how to recognize that our
app was fully initialized and ready to accept requests.

One of the features of OpenShift is the ability to _probe_ applications. Probing is used to report the liveness and
readiness or an application. In this use case, you configure an application which exposes an HTTP health endpoint to
issue HTTP requests. If the container is alive, according to the liveness probe on the health HTTP endpoint, the
management platform receives `200` as return code and no further action is required. If the health HTTP endpoint does
not return a response, for example if the JVM is no longer running or a thread is blocked, then the application is
not considered alive according to the liveness probe. In that case, the platform kills the pod corresponding to that
application and recreates a new pod to restart the application.

=== Add WildFly Swarm Fraction Dependencies

The features implemented in this exercise require a couple of new Fraction dependencies. Open the `pom.xml` and
add these dependencies, just below the existing Fraction dependencies (look for the `<!-- Add additional dependencies here -\->` comment):

[source, xml]
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.wildfly.swarm</groupId>
            <artifactId>monitor</artifactId>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.wildfly.core</groupId>
            <artifactId>wildfly-controller-client</artifactId>
            <version>2.2.1.Final</version>
        </dependency>

By adding the `monitor` fraction, Fabric8 will automatically add a _readinessProbe_ and _livenessProbe_ to the openshift
_DeploymentConfig_ that is created when `mvn fabric8:deploy` is run. But you still need to implement the logic behind
the health check, which you'll do next.

=== Implement Health Check Endpoint

Create a new RESTful endpoint which will be used by OpenShift to probe our services:

. Create a new file `src/main/java/com/redhat/coolstore/rest/HealthEndpoint.java` with the following content:

[source,java]
----
package com.redhat.coolstore.rest;

import org.jboss.as.controller.client.ModelControllerClient;
import org.jboss.dmr.ModelNode;
import org.wildfly.swarm.health.Health;
import org.wildfly.swarm.health.HealthStatus;

import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.InetAddress;

@Path("/service")
public class HealthEndpoint {

    @GET
    @Health
    @Path("/health")
    public HealthStatus health() {
        ModelNode op = new ModelNode();
        op.get("address").setEmptyList();
        op.get("operation").set("read-attribute");
        op.get("name").set("suspend-state");

        try (ModelControllerClient client = ModelControllerClient.Factory.create(
                InetAddress.getByName("localhost"), 9990)) {
            ModelNode response = client.execute(op);

            if (response.has("failure-description")) {
                throw new Exception(response.get("failure-description").asString());
            }

            boolean isRunning = response.get("result").asString().equals("RUNNING");
            if (isRunning) {
                return HealthStatus.named("server-state").up();
            } else {
                return HealthStatus.named("server-state").down();
            }
        } catch (Exception e) {
            throw new RuntimeException(e);
        }
    }

    @GET
    @Path("/killme")
    public Response killme() {
        ModelNode op = new ModelNode();
        op.get("address").setEmptyList();
        op.get("operation").set("suspend");

        try (ModelControllerClient client = ModelControllerClient.Factory.create(
                InetAddress.getByName("localhost"), 9990)) {
            ModelNode response = client.execute(op);

            if (response.has("failure-description")) {
                throw new Exception(response.get("failure-description").asString());
            }

            return Response.ok(response.get("result").asString()).build();

        } catch (Exception e) {
            throw new RuntimeException(e);
        }
    }

}
----

The `health()` method exposes an HTTP GET endpoint which will return the status of the service using WildFly's
built-in APIs. It is annotated with WildFly Swarm's `@Health` annotation, which directs WildFly Swarm to expose
this endpoint as a health check at `/health`.

The `killme()` method exposes another HTTP GET endpoint which will simulate the service being killed or taken offline.
Once this endpoint is called, our service will no longer function. We will use this to exercise the functionality of
WildFly Swarm and OpenShift probes.

=== Deploy service and test Health Checks

With the health check in place, it's time to test it out. First, re-deploy the project:

[source,bash]
% mvn clean package fabric8:build fabric8:deploy

Once the project is deployed, you should be able to access the health check (be sure to replace `HOSTNAME`
with your service's correct hostname from `oc get route inventory`):

[source, json]
% curl http://HOSTNAME/health
{
  "checks": [
    {
      "id": "server-state",
      "result": "UP"
    }
  ],
  "outcome": "UP"
}

This is the same endpoint that OpenShift will access when it runs the app in a container.

=== Kill the Service

Let's kill the service. Before killing it, open up the OpenShift Web Console to your project's "Overview" page to witness
the killing and resurrection of the service.

With the Web Console open, go ahead and kill the service by accessing the previously-created _killme_ endpoint on the command line:
(again, replace `HOSTNAME` as before):

[source, bash]
% curl http://HOSTNAME/api/service/killme
undefined

Moments after the service is killed, OpenShift will notice this because its health probes will begin to fail. You'll
notice that the dark blue circle representing the pod turns light-blue, indicating it's unready:
image:images/killme.png[Killed pod]

While it's unready, attempt to access the service and witness its failure:

[source, bash]
% curl http://inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io/api/service/killme
<html><head><title>Error</title></head><body>503 - Service Unavailable</body></html>

Accessing the health endpoint:

[source, bash]
% curl http://inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io/health
{
  "checks": [
    {
      "id": "/api/service/health",
      "result": "DOWN",
      "data": {
        "status-code": 503
      }
    }
  ],
  "outcome": "DOWN"
}

After a few more moments, OpenShift will decide the service is no longer viable, and the pod and container in which
it is running is killed. OpenShift will then instantiate a new pod in its place.

NOTE: If you wait too long when verifying the death of the service, OpenShift might have a chance to resurrect before
you can verify. You can just try again with the _killme_ endpoint if you really want to see it behave as shown.

Once it's been resurrected, the circle will turn dark blue once again.  Attempt once more to access the service:

[source, bash]
% curl http://inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io/api/inventory/329299
{"itemId":"329299","location":"Raleigh","quantity":736,"link":"http://maps.google.com/?q=Raleigh"}

It's back! OpenShift will do its best to keep as many copies of the app running as has been instructed (in this case
1 copy).

Commit message:

update fabric8, fmp, WildFly Swarm versions. Add health check pic

lab3/docs/lab3-instructions.adoc, after:

:noaudio:
:scrollbar:
:data-uri:
:toc2:

== Lab 3: Configuration Management and Health Checks

In this lab, you will add additional features to the inventory service to integrate it further
into OpenShift and make it easier to manage. The goals of this lab are:

. Further externalize the service's configuration outside of the app entirely using OpenShift
https://docs.openshift.org/latest/dev_guide/configmaps.html[ConfigMaps]. This allows configuration
to be managed and evolved without any rebuilding of the application.

. Understand and implement health checks on the service, to enable OpenShift to more accurately
manage the service's lifecycle and detect and respond to anomalous events such as application
crashes or hangs due to various environmental factors.

.Requirements

* Familiarity with Java programming
* Knowledge of OpenShift concepts

:numbered:

== Find lab3 project files

Each lab in this course is housed in separate directories. Using the command line, find and observe
the files for this lab:

    % cd $HOME/rhoar-enablement/lab3

IMPORTANT: Be sure to replace `$HOME` with the directory you chose to put the content in previous labs.

== Exercise: Externalized WildFly Swarm Configuration

In this first part of the lab you will further refine the handling of WildFly Swarm configuration. Recall from
previous labs, you created different configuration files for development vs. production _stages_. This allowed you
to make changes to the configuration files without touching the source code. However, the files are still part of
the application and even after making changes to them, a re-build and re-deployment of the application is necessary
to get those changes into production.

An even better way is to completely remove the production configuration from the application entirely, and allow your
deployment infrastructure (in this case OpenShift) to manage the configuration changes. Using OpenShift's _ConfigMap_
feature, you will do exactly this.

It is important for an application’s configuration to be externalized and separate from its code. This allows for the
application’s configuration to change as it moves through different environments (dev/test/prod) while leaving the code unchanged. This
also keeps sensitive or internal information out of your codebase and version control.

=== Understand ConfigMaps

ConfigMap is an object used by OpenShift to inject configuration data as simple key and value pairs into one or more
Linux containers while keeping the those containers agnostic of OpenShift. You can create a ConfigMap object in a
variety of different ways, including using a YAML file, and inject it into the Linux container. You can find more
information about ConfigMap in the https://docs.openshift.org/latest/dev_guide/configmaps.html[OpenShift documentation].

ConfigMaps are _mounted_ into a running container, so that the application running in the container sees the content
as a normal file on the filesystem and can be accessed using ordinary filesystem operations (e.g. using `java.io.File`
interfaces).

=== Create OpenShift ConfigMap

In this exercise you will create a ConfigMap containing the production configuration for the inventory service, including
a new configuration value which will be used by the service to change its behavior.

. To create the ConfigMap, create a new YAML file using your IDE at `src/main/fabric8/inventory-configmap.yml` that contains:
[source, yaml]
metadata:
  name: app-config
data:
  inventory-config: |
    project:
      stage: production
    swarm:
      logging: INFO
      datasources:
        data-sources:
          InventoryDS:
            driver-name: postgresql
            connection-url: jdbc:postgresql://inventory-database:5432/inventory
            user-name: swarm
            password: password
    stores:
      closed: Raleigh,Tokyo

. Save the file

Notice it contains a new section starting with `stores:`. This value will be used in the next steps. This file
also includes the declaration of the name of the stage (`production`) that this configuration represents.

CAUTION: YAML files are sensitive to indentation level for each line, so be sure to maintain the indentation
as shown here!

This file will be processed by Fabric8 and create an object within OpenShift when the application is deployed.

=== Modify OpenShift Deployment to use ConfigMap

To use the ConfigMap within OpenShift, it is necessary to declare in the DeploymentConfig object for the
application which ConfigMap to mount, where to mount it, and how to expose its contents.

. Open the `src/main/fabric8/inventory-deployment.yml` file in your IDE

. Below the `# Insert Volumes here` comment, add the following lines:
[source, yaml]
      # Insert Volumes here
      volumes:
        - configMap:
            name: app-config
            items:
            - key: "inventory-config"
              path: "inventory-config.yml"
          name: config

WARNING: Be sure that the indentation above is maintained, and that the first line with `volumes:` is in the same
column as the `# Insert Volumes here` comment!

. Below the `# Insert Volume Mounts here` comment, add the following lines:
[source, yaml]
        ## Insert Volume Mounts here
        volumeMounts:
          - name: config
            mountPath: /app/config

. Modify the `JAVA_OPTIONS` environment variable value (search for `JAVA_OPTIONS` to find it). Set it to this value:
[source, yaml]
          - name: JAVA_OPTIONS
            value: "-Dswarm.project.stage=production -Dswarm.project.stage.file=file:///app/config/inventory-config.yml"

. Save the files(s)

The above changes will cause the ConfigMap values to be mounted into the container at runtime at
`/app/config/inventory-config.yml`, and instruct WildFly Swarm to read it to get its configuration variables.

=== Modify Inventory Service to inject configuration values

Now that the ConfigMap values are read into the WildFly Swarm runtime, you must modify the application to use the value.

In this case you will modify the inventory service to read the "Stores Closed" configuration value, and if a store
is closed, then return `0` for the inventory count for any product in that store.

. Open `src/main/java/com/redhat/coolstore/rest/InventoryEndpoint.java` and replace the entire contents with this
new class implementation:

[source,java]
----
package com.redhat.coolstore.rest;

import javax.inject.Inject;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.PathParam;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;

import com.redhat.coolstore.model.Inventory;
import com.redhat.coolstore.service.InventoryService;
import org.wildfly.swarm.spi.runtime.annotations.ConfigurationValue;

import java.util.Optional;

@Path("/inventory")
public class InventoryEndpoint {

    @Inject
    private InventoryService inventoryService;

    @Inject
    @ConfigurationValue("stores.closed")
    private Optional<String> storesClosed;

    @GET
    @Path("/{itemId}")
    @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
    public Inventory getAvailability(@PathParam("itemId") String itemId) {
        Inventory i = inventoryService.getInventory(itemId);
        for (String store : storesClosed.orElse("").split(",")) {
            if (store.equalsIgnoreCase(i.getLocation())) {
                i.setQuantity(0);
            }
        }
        return i;
    }
}
----

Here we `@Inject` the value of the `stores.closed` configuration value (from the ConfigMap) and then reference it in
the code which loops through each closed store, and if the item is present in the closed store, override the quantity
to be `0` indicating the store is closed.

. Save the file

=== Deploy service and inspect ConfigMap

It's time to test out our new code!

. Create a new OpenShift project to house lab3:
[source, bash]
% oc new-project lab3-userXX

Be sure to replace `userXX` with your username.

. To re-deploy the application, execute:

[source,bash]
% mvn clean package fabric8:build fabric8:deploy

. To discover the URL of the route for this lab, execute:

[source, bash]
% oc get route inventory
NAME        HOST/PORT                             PATH      SERVICES    PORT      TERMINATION   WILDCARD
inventory   inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io             inventory   8080                    None

The hostname of the service will be different depending on your cluster, but in this example the hostname
is `inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io`. To exercise the endpoint, use `curl` once again:

    % curl http://HOSTNAME/api/inventory/329299
    {"itemId":"329299","location":"Raleigh","quantity":0,"link":"http://maps.google.com/?q=Raleigh"}

Be sure to replace the hostname with your actual hostname from the `oc get routes` command.

Since the store is now closed (by virtue of `Raleigh` appearing in the list of closed stores), notice the `quantity:0`.
Our store is now closed in Raleigh!

=== Modify configuration values

Let's exercise the power of ConfigMaps and re-open the store. Until now you've been using the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) to
make changes to OpenShift. In this exercise, you will use the OpenShift Web Console to edit the ConfigMap.

. Open your favorite browser and navigate to `https://MASTER_HOSTNAME:8443`. Be sure to replace `MASTER_HOSTNAME` with
the hostname of the OpenShift Web Console hostname issued to you as part of this lab (e.g. `https://console.swarm.rhmw.org:8443`)

. Login with your OpenShift Credentials.
image:images/login.png[OpenShift login]

. Once logged in, you will see a list of projects. Click on the `lab3-userXX` project.
image:images/projects.png[Projects list]

. You'll see pods for both the inventory and inventory-database.
image:images/pods.png[Pods list]

. Navigate to _Resources_ -> _Config Maps_. You should see one entry for the existing ConfigMap named `app-config`:
image:images/configmap.png[Config Map]

. Click on the name of the ConfigMap to see details including the values of the configuration items.

. To change the value for the closed stores list, click on _Actions_ -> _Edit_.
image:images/configmapdetail.png[Config Map Detail]

. In the text box, change the value for the closed stores to remove `Raleigh`. The final value should simply by `Tokyo`.
image:images/configmapedit.png[Config Map Edit]

. Click Save

. At this point the ConfigMap has been updated, but the service must be restarted for the change to take effect. This
does not require a re-build, but simply a reboot of the service. Navigate to _Applications_ -> _Deployments_. Click on
the _inventory_ deployment to get details:
image:images/dc.png[DC Edit]

 . And then click the _Deploy_ button to re-deploy.
image:images/dcdeploy.png[DC Edit]

. Return to the _Overview_ screen to watch the redeployment happen.
image:images/deployaction.png[DC Edit]

. Once complete, verify the store is now open by using the command line once again (and replace `HOSTNAME` with the hostname
from `oc get route inventory`):

    % curl http://HOSTNAME/api/inventory/329299
    {"itemId":"329299","location":"Raleigh","quantity":736,"link":"http://maps.google.com/?q=Raleigh"}%

Success! The store is now open with `quantity:736` items remaining.

== Exercise: WildFly Swarm Health Checks

In this part of the lab you will enhance OpenShift's ability to manage the application lifecycle by implementing
a _health check pattern_. You may have noticed in previous labs that OpenShift considered the inventory application to be ready to accept service requests
even before the application was truly ready. This is because OpenShift was not _taught_ how to recognize that our
app was fully initialized and ready to accept requests. You also may have noticed this hint:

image:images/nohealth.png[Health Check Warning]

This is OpenShift's subtle hint that apps really should define health probes!

One of the features of OpenShift is the ability to _probe_ applications. Probing is used to report the liveness and
readiness or an application. In this use case, you configure an application which exposes an HTTP health endpoint to
issue HTTP requests. If the container is alive, according to the liveness probe on the health HTTP endpoint, the
management platform receives `200` as return code and no further action is required. If the health HTTP endpoint does
not return a response, for example if the JVM is no longer running or a thread is blocked, then the application is
not considered alive according to the liveness probe. In that case, the platform kills the pod corresponding to that
application and recreates a new pod to restart the application.

=== Add WildFly Swarm Fraction Dependencies

The features implemented in this exercise require a couple of new Fraction dependencies. Open the `pom.xml` and
add these dependencies, just below the existing Fraction dependencies (look for the `<!-- Add additional dependencies here -\->` comment):

[source, xml]
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.wildfly.swarm</groupId>
            <artifactId>monitor</artifactId>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.wildfly.core</groupId>
            <artifactId>wildfly-controller-client</artifactId>
            <version>2.2.1.Final</version>
        </dependency>

By adding the `monitor` fraction, Fabric8 will automatically add a _readinessProbe_ and _livenessProbe_ to the openshift
_DeploymentConfig_ that is created when `mvn fabric8:deploy` is run. But you still need to implement the logic behind
the health check, which you'll do next.

=== Implement Health Check Endpoint

Create a new RESTful endpoint which will be used by OpenShift to probe our services:

. Create a new file `src/main/java/com/redhat/coolstore/rest/HealthEndpoint.java` with the following content:

[source,java]
----
package com.redhat.coolstore.rest;

import org.jboss.as.controller.client.ModelControllerClient;
import org.jboss.dmr.ModelNode;
import org.wildfly.swarm.health.Health;
import org.wildfly.swarm.health.HealthStatus;

import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.InetAddress;

@Path("/service")
public class HealthEndpoint {

    @GET
    @Health
    @Path("/health")
    public HealthStatus health() {
        ModelNode op = new ModelNode();
        op.get("address").setEmptyList();
        op.get("operation").set("read-attribute");
        op.get("name").set("suspend-state");

        try (ModelControllerClient client = ModelControllerClient.Factory.create(
                InetAddress.getByName("localhost"), 9990)) {
            ModelNode response = client.execute(op);

            if (response.has("failure-description")) {
                throw new Exception(response.get("failure-description").asString());
            }

            boolean isRunning = response.get("result").asString().equals("RUNNING");
            if (isRunning) {
                return HealthStatus.named("server-state").up();
            } else {
                return HealthStatus.named("server-state").down();
            }
        } catch (Exception e) {
            throw new RuntimeException(e);
        }
    }

    @GET
    @Path("/killme")
    public Response killme() {
        ModelNode op = new ModelNode();
        op.get("address").setEmptyList();
        op.get("operation").set("suspend");

        try (ModelControllerClient client = ModelControllerClient.Factory.create(
                InetAddress.getByName("localhost"), 9990)) {
            ModelNode response = client.execute(op);

            if (response.has("failure-description")) {
                throw new Exception(response.get("failure-description").asString());
            }

            return Response.ok(response.get("result").asString()).build();

        } catch (Exception e) {
            throw new RuntimeException(e);
        }
    }

}
----

The `health()` method exposes an HTTP GET endpoint which will return the status of the service using WildFly's
built-in APIs. It is annotated with WildFly Swarm's `@Health` annotation, which directs WildFly Swarm to expose
this endpoint as a health check at `/health`.

The `killme()` method exposes another HTTP GET endpoint which will simulate the service being killed or taken offline.
Once this endpoint is called, our service will no longer function. We will use this to exercise the functionality of
WildFly Swarm and OpenShift probes.

=== Deploy service and test Health Checks

With the health check in place, it's time to test it out. First, re-deploy the project:

[source,bash]
% mvn clean package fabric8:build fabric8:deploy

Once the project is deployed, you should be able to access the health check (be sure to replace `HOSTNAME`
with your service's correct hostname from `oc get route inventory`):

[source, json]
% curl http://HOSTNAME/health
{
  "checks": [
    {
      "id": "server-state",
      "result": "UP"
    }
  ],
  "outcome": "UP"
}

This is the same endpoint that OpenShift will access when it runs the app in a container.

=== Kill the Service

Let's kill the service. Before killing it, open up the OpenShift Web Console to your project's "Overview" page to witness
the killing and resurrection of the service.

With the Web Console open, go ahead and kill the service by accessing the previously-created _killme_ endpoint on the command line:
(again, replace `HOSTNAME` as before):

[source, bash]
% curl http://HOSTNAME/api/service/killme
undefined

Moments after the service is killed, OpenShift will notice this because its health probes will begin to fail. You'll
notice that the dark blue circle representing the pod turns light-blue, indicating it's unready:
image:images/killme.png[Killed pod]

While it's unready, attempt to access the service and witness its failure:

[source, bash]
% curl http://inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io/api/service/killme
<html><head><title>Error</title></head><body>503 - Service Unavailable</body></html>

Accessing the health endpoint:

[source, bash]
% curl http://inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io/health
{
  "checks": [
    {
      "id": "/api/service/health",
      "result": "DOWN",
      "data": {
        "status-code": 503
      }
    }
  ],
  "outcome": "DOWN"
}

After a few more moments, OpenShift will decide the service is no longer viable, and the pod and container in which
it is running is killed. OpenShift will then instantiate a new pod in its place.

NOTE: If you wait too long when verifying the death of the service, OpenShift might have a chance to resurrect before
you can verify. You can just try again with the _killme_ endpoint if you really want to see it behave as shown.

Once it's been resurrected, the circle will turn dark blue once again.  Attempt once more to access the service:

[source, bash]
% curl http://inventory-lab3.apps.127.0.0.1.nip.io/api/inventory/329299
{"itemId":"329299","location":"Raleigh","quantity":736,"link":"http://maps.google.com/?q=Raleigh"}

It's back! OpenShift will do its best to keep as many copies of the app running as has been instructed (in this case
1 copy).
